---
layout: post
title: "About me and this blog"
published: true
tags: ""
---

My name is Miroslav Smukov, I'm from Serbia, and I've been a professional software developer since 2010. For the majority of my career I've been developing
desktop applications with C# and .NET Framework, but I always like to experiment with other fields and technologies so I had some
professional experiences with Web and Mobile development, Kinect and Leap motion sensors, Unity3d and others, during 60+ projects I completed as a freelancer.
However, this isn't supposed to be my CV, so if you want to know more about my past work you can checkout my [LinkedIn profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/smukov).

Late in 2015 I decided that instead of me being a **jack of all trades** and a **master of none**, that I actually wanted to become a **master of one** particular
technology. Luckily, during this period I heard about **Salesforce**. I did some research and a fair bit of thinking and have decided that over time
I want to work on and learn Salesforce platform inside out. I want to become the best and most productive developer I can be, and build my career on it.

I got certified as a **Salesforce App Builder** in February 2016. My next goal is to obtain **Platform Developer I** certification, and then
the **Platform Developer II** before the end of 2017.

If you read up to here you probably realized that I'm still a beginner in Salesforce ecosystem, so my code and solutions won't be perfect, but this brings
us to the reasons behind this blog, so read on.

### Reasons behind this blog

I started this blog because I've been working as a freelance developer for the major part of my career.
Half of that time I was working as a sole developer on every project, and on the other half of the projects I was
employed as a most senior team member. Due to this I had very limited exposure to more senior colleagues and I always
had to force myself to search the web for best solutions to the problems I was facing, and to educate myself on the
latest coding patterns & practices - there was nobody to correct my code and provide me with alternative ideas.

So, on this blog I'm going to share some of the more interesting problems and solutions I face during the rest of my career,
and over time - if this blog gets any traction - I'm hoping to attract and gain valuable insights from other Salesforce professionals
that will offer their 2¢ and help me (and others reading this) become better developers.

I'm open to any constructive critique, and I'm happy to alter my blog posts if I find your solutions to be better than mine.

Thank you and I hope you'll find something useful and/or interesting for yourself on my blog.

### Contact me

via [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/smukov), [Email](mailto:smukov@gmail.com) or [Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/MiroslavSmukov).
